Spotlight on Terrorism: Lebanon and Hezbollah March 2-9, 2026

网页标题：Spotlight on Terrorism: Lebanon and Hezbollah March 2-9, 2026
网页链接：https://www.terrorism-info.org.il/app/uploads/2026/03/E_044_26.pdf
发布时间：2026-03-12T08:14:16+08:00
网页内容：Spotlight on Terrorism: Hezbollah Lebanon and March 2-9, 2026
Overview1
On March 2, 2026, Hezbollah renewed its attacks on Israel in response to the Iran-Israel War which began on February 28, 2026. IDF forces attacked Hezbollah targets throughout Lebanon and eliminated terrorist commanders and operatives, senior officials in Iran's Qods Force and commanders in Palestinian terrorist organizations operating in Lebanon. In addition, IDF forces seized additional terrain in south Lebanon and located and destroyed terrorist facilities and assets. Evacuation notices were issued for all residents of south Lebanon and for neighborhoods in Dahiyeh al-Janoubia in Beirut. Two IDF soldiers were killed in the fighting.
Hezbollah claimed responsibility for 124 attacks on civilian, military and security targets in Israel and on IDF forces in south Lebanon, firing rockets and launching missiles and UAVs, including the first rockets fired at central Israel since the ceasefire of November 2024. The organization attacked the northern cities of Nahariya and Kiryat Shmona after issuing "evacuation notices" to residents. Hezbollah did not report the number of casualties in its ranks, however according to unofficial estimates more than 100 operatives were killed.
Hezbollah secretary general Na'im Qassem claimed the new attacks were in response to Israel and American "aggression" to "violations" of the ceasefire agreement. He accused the Lebanese government of weakening the state, diminishing its standing and surrendering to external demands. A commentator affiliated with Hezbollah claimed that any arrangement had rocket include a return to the status quo ante of October 8, 2023, when Hezbollah began to "assist" Hamas.
The Lebanese leadership announced it would implement the ban on Hezbollah's military and security activity and said the organization was responsible for the new escalation. The government also ordered the expulsion of all Qods Force operatives from Lebanon and said Iranian citizens would require a visa to enter the country.
► On the night of March 2, 2026, Hezbollah said it would continue fighting against Israel.
According to the organization's combat information unit, all political and diplomatic efforts to
stop Israeli "aggression" had failed during the 15 months since the ceasefire went into effect,
and the "situation could not continue without a response." Hezbollah declared it was necessary
"to put an end to the aggression by all available means, with decisive and effective action,"
calling confrontation "a legitimate right." Hezbollah also claimed that the rockets fired at
toward Israel were "defensive," and called on all those concerned, interested and responsible
to act to stop the "aggression" (Hezbollah combat information Telegram channel, March 3,
2026).
► Hezbollah activity during the past week (Hezbollah combat information Telegram channel,
March 2–9, 2026):
From the renewal of fighting until March 9, 2026 at 12:00, Hezbollah issued 124
statements claiming responsibility for attacks on military, security and civilian targets in
Israel and IDF forces in south Lebanon. They attacked with anti-tank missiles, artillery
shells, UAVs, precision missiles, rockets of various types, anti-aircraft missiles fired at
Israeli Air Force aircraft and attacks on IDF forces in south Lebanon. Hezbollah claimed
responsibility for attacks on troop concentrations, IDF bases and Northern Command
headquarters, and on aerial defense installations. On March 3, 2026, rockets were fired
at central Israel for the first time since the ceasefire went into effect on November 2024.
Not all of Hezbollah's claims regarding attacks or damage to IDF forces were verified.
Hezbollah casualties: The names of senior officials and operatives killed in IDF attacks
since the beginning of the current war were not released. However, on social media
accounts, including unofficial accounts identified with Hezbollah, photographs
appeared of more than 100 operatives who had been killed in Israeli attacks, some of
them in notices confirming their Hezbollah affiliation, including some who had political
positions in south Lebanon (X account QalaatM, Telegram channels South Lebanon
Watching the Enemy and Hezbollah on the Ground, March 2–9, 2026).
Issuance of evacuation warnings: In response to evacuation notices issued by the IDF
spokesperson in Arabic for extensive areas in Lebanon, Hezbollah issued its own
"notices" ordering the people living northern Israeli cities of Nahariya and Kiryat Shmona to evacuate immediately and move southward. The organization also claimed responsibility for firing rockets and launching UAVs at both cities and claimed the attacks had been carried out following the warnings.
aatN u5s
T'n nnn?
卫PP
ninu
P 1T139
"Evacuation notice" for the residents of Kiryat Shmona (Hezbollah combat information Telegram channel, March 7, 2026)
Psychological warfare: Hezbollah's information unit issued videos and pictures to highlight the organization's ability to attack IDF forces and Israeli territory, including with missiles, and quoted Israeli media regarding Hezbollah's ability to attack targets inside Israel.

P
Hezbollah picture boasting of launching 100 rockets and UAVs at Israeli territory in one day (Hezbollah combat information, March 7, 2026)
Reports indicated Hezbollah operatives were returning to the area south of the Litani River, from which the organization had previously withdrawn following Lebanese army activity to enforce concentration of weapons in the hands of the state. Sources close to Hezbollah claimed that the organization was on full alert, new field leaders had been appointed and different combat methods had been adopted. According to a source in the organization, morale among the fighters remained high despite recent developments, and the was was perceived as being "important and sensitive" (al-Sharq al-Awsat, March 4, 2026; al-Diyar, March 5, 2026).
6
044-26
Hezbollah
► Hezbollah secretary general Na'im Qassem justified the renewal of attacks on Israel as a
response to ongoing Israeli-American "aggression" and to "violations" of the ceasefire
agreement of November 2024. He claimed that for 15 months there had been no "military"
response to allow Lebanon's diplomatic efforts to halt to the attacks. Given the criticism in
Lebanon accusing Hezbollah of dragging the country into another war, Qassem claimed that the fighting was a "struggle with a Lebanese character" and not as part of any regional war
connected to Iran. Qassem hardly referred to Iran in his speech in an effort to represent
Hezbollah's attacks as "national defense" and to continue consolidating support among its
Shi'ite base in Lebanon. Qassem criticized the Lebanese government, claiming that its recent...